2005.10.15
The k-means clustering routine accepts all eight distance functions available
in the C Clustering Library. However, using distance functions other than the
Euclidean distance and the city-block distance is discouraged. The reason is
that other distance functions (such as the Pearson distance) calculate
distances between data vectors that are effectively scaled (by subtracting the
mean and dividing by the standard deviation for the Pearson distance), whereas
the centroid calculation is performed by averaging the data vectors without
normalization. A more correct way to use these normalized distance functions
is to normalize the data (using the "Adjust data" tab in the GUI program)
before starting the k-means clustering calculation. To discourage the use of
distance functions other than the Euclidean distance and the city-block
distance, in the GUI-version the distance defaults to the Euclidean distance
for k-means and SOM calculations SOM (other distances can still be chosen,
though).
A similar argument can be made against the use of distance functions other than
the Euclidean distance and the city-block distance in pairwise centroid-linkage
hierarchical clustering.
Fixed a bug in the command-line version of the code that caused the -ng and
-na flags to have an effect only if the -cg and -ca flags were also specified.
Fixed the Load routine in src/data.c so that it doesn't crash if the users
attempts to read an empty file.
Fixed the reading of empty lines in the data file in the Load routine in
src/data.c.
Removed the AlwaysCreateUninstallIcon option from the Inno Setup configuration
file, as it is no longer supported by Inno Setup.
Fixed a bug in windows/gui.c that caused arrays to be centered if the "Center
genes" checkbox is checked.
Simplified the way in which the bitmap is displayed in the "File format" help
window, and fixed its position (previously, it was partly covered by the text
on Windows XP).
Fixed a bug in FilterDialogProc in windows/gui.c that caused a NULL pointer to
be freed the first time the filter is applied.
Gave ID_KMEANS_ARRAY_METRIC and ID_KMEANS_BUTTON different identifier numbers
in windows/resources.rc.
Updated windows/resources.rc to comply with the latest version of windres.
Modified somworker in src/cluster.c to take the mask into account.
Changed my email address, as I'm now at Columbia University.
